kennedy 


Kennedy wins the democratic nomination. 


Kennedy only won this nomination through the primaries, had it been up to the political bosses he would have lost. 


Kennedy beat out Lyndon B Johnson, and these two disliked one another. 


Lyndon was chosen to be his vice president, in order to win over the Southern Democrats. 


JFK is our first Catholic President


He adressed this issue very well. 

"the Pope will be president" 


He is 43, the youngest ever president. 



TV is the reason he won, had he not had TV, he probably would have lost the nomination to 
NIXON. 


Lots of TV ADS.

First ever TV debates, which Kennedy takes good advantage of. 




Kennedy clutches up the debates even through his just general looks. 

Nixon looks emaciated in the United States. 



Nixon looks dumb, basically. 



Nixon gets hurt by the visual contrast between him and kennedy. 

Viewers think that K veat N, but radio people think that N beat K. 



There was a good amount of voter fraud that helped the Kennedys. 


The Kennedy family had good connections to the mafia, and they definitely bought a ton of votes. 




Kennedy and his wife are very attractice. 



the fact that they have good kids and a good solid family unit is also famous. 


jacqueline kennedy is the second most famous woman in the nation. 



Kennedy is a liberal. 


Influenced a lot by Kenneth Gilbert, his economic advisor. 



New Frontier. 



Increase aid to education: more money for failing school. 


provide health insurance to the elderly. 


helping the migrant workers


raising minimum wage

rebuilding cities and slums. 


republicans and southern democrats block all of these proposals. 


when Kennedy Dies, he becomes very popular, and so do his ideas. 


LBJ in the great society will use kennedy's legacy to pass these ideas. 



his ideas are super famous postmortem.



kennedy also got a lot of credit for the space race and for funding NASA so much. 


winning the space race to the moon helps us win back from sputnik and sets up a stage of prestige
as the first people to ever reach the moon


Foreing Policy: 


	Peace Corps; 

		One of his successes. 


		Kennedy is known for his idealistic vision and policy of the UNited States. 


		The peace Corps, young americans just out of the best university would volunteer
		2-3 years out of their life at some poor area to serve the world. 


		it is still around and rather popular and promotes the idea of volunteerism and
		service

		very much the idea of cold war. making america look charitable and humanitarian. 


		good will foreign policy. 



The Marshall Plan for Latin America; 



Aliance for progress


20 billion dollars of aid to the latin american nations in exchange for dmemocratic capitalistic reforms. 


afraid of cuba, basically. 


Kennedy desided to have a flexible response foreing policy. 

expanded us military options


built nuvlear capabilities
strengthened conventional weapons


wanted more options with his military. 


BAY OF PIGS INCIDENT: 

	Train 1000 cuban refugees on the bay of pigs in cuba to try and spark an uprising to overthorw to the castro
	government

	Kennedy becomes president and says syre to this CIA plan. 


	Castro knew exactly where we were going ot land as well.


	There was reports in Florida papers of major troop movements. 

	These forces weere quickly overwhelmed and lost very quickly. 

	HUge embarassment and disaster for the united states. 



	Kennedy did not send in more troops or airpower to support. 


	Kennedy goes on national TV and he took full responsibility for this. 



	Kennedy became more popular for  admitting his mistake. 



BERLIN CRISIS: 1961

	Kennedy and Krushchev meet for the first time in Vienna. 

	American presence in West Berlin in East Germany. 


	People have been moving from East Berlin to West Berlin. 


	Kruschev tells to America, if you don't leave, there will be very negative consequences. 


	The berlin wall goes up in 1961. 


	Massive Wall in the middle of the city of BErlin. 


	TO many people, the symbol of the Cold War. 


	To many, the symbol of the failures of communism. 


	He said Ich bin ein Berliner. 

	He tried to say I am a berliner but he said I am someone from Berline. 


	We didn't want to leave: 

		Symbolic commitement to not Abandon them


The closest we come to the Berline missile crisis was the Cuban Missile Crisis. 


	Kennedy had crippled the Bay of Pigs operation by denying air and naval support. 


	Attorney General Robert Kennedy claimed that the Russians woudl view Pigs Bay as a sign of weakness .


	US imposed economic sanctions on Cuba. 


	Krushchev was super happy to have a communist outpost in americas backyard. 


	2 coldwar superpowers were actively facing off over berlin. 



	Soviets setup nuclear missiles in Cuba

	They were now within striking range. 


	U2 recon planes had now clearly set up the fact that there were very clearly missiles in Cuba. 

	People were super scared of this military crisis .


	US military was getting ready to flat out invade Cuba. 


	The naition snuclear army moved to DEFCON 2. 

	DEFCON 1 would mean nuvlear war. 



	Americans wwere ordered to destroy every major city in the Soviet Union. 



	Cuba was in completely in range for the United States. 

	Way too close for warning systems to realize that there was a problem before we felt the consequences. 



	Tons of initiatives within the government to figure things out. 



	What on earth do we do right now. 


	USA semi thinks that these missiles are non-operational .


	Taking out nukes and removing Castro .



	We almost did surgical airstrikes ON the nukes. 


	We removed our missiles from Turkey. 


	Naval quarantine: 

		Initiated. 

		A blockade of cuba, basically. 


		A blockade is effectively an act of war. 


	We now know that these missiles WERE in fact nuclear missiles that WERE functional. 




	Kruschev and Kennedy makes a secret deal: 

	we never invade cuba and take out our missiles from turkey and they take out their missiles from cuba. 




We would have destroyed the Soviet Union with nuclear war, hence, thats why they never launched the Nuclear Weapon. 



They simply could not do that to the United States. 





Fear of Nuclear war leads to soe good treaties: 


	Limited Test Ban Treaty between US and GB and USSR: 

		limits atmospheric testing. 



	Hot Line established from Soviet Union from the White House to the Kremlin. 



	Relations with Cuba get worse. 


	JFK gets a popularity increase. 



MUTUALLY ASSURED DESTRUCTION: 


Nobody wins in a nuclear war, EVERYONE dies. 



JFK Assasination: 


	Vietnam: 
		
		Buddhist man set himself on fire protesting against the United States and the south vietnamese leader. 



	We sent military advisors to South Vietnam to train and advise the South Vietnamese Army .



	Many south Vietnamese were really loyal to the North. 



	Diem built Strategic Hamlets: 

		reconcentration camps basically. 


	If you are a villager, you cant attack ur government if you cant leave ur village. 


	Very unpopular. 


	US Army is basically RUNNING vietnam. 

	Which is crazy when you think about it. 



Kennedy gets shot. 


Lee Harvey Oswald was caught.


Nobody thinks conspiracy, they think that they have thier guy. 


Clear Evidence .

HE gets shot on national telivision a couple days later. 



They were trying to silence him is the conspiract because he knew too much info. 



The guy who shot him was a stripclub owner. 


He claimed taht he loved Kennedy that when he heard about the opportunity to kill his killer, he just jumped. 



Most americans do not believe it when the government says that Oswald was acting alone. 


Modern Forensics show that the single bullet theory does hold water. 




Lyndon Johnson is in DALLAS and this guy would not take the oath of office without Jackie Kennedy. 


They never did an autopsy in Dallas. 

The CIA stole the body. 



Against the orders of the doctors. 


Very famous image. 


ON airforce one taking Oath of Office. 




Kennedy becomes a beloved leader. 


His names becomes practically saintlike for about a decade-ish. 



Lyndon B Johnson hates ivy league elitism in govenrment. 


LBJ comes into pwoer in the 1930s. 


He dreams of being like FDR and delivering liberal legislation. 


He acts more moderate becuase he is from Texas. 

























