10:12 AM Thursday, March 14, 2024


LYndon B Johnson: 


The other America: 

	40 Million Americans stil living in Poverty
	
	1 in 5 americans below poverty Line. 
	
First thing Johnson is famous for: 


	The "unconditional war" against poverty. 

	Office of Economic Opportunity is instituted. 
	
		Head start: Still exists
		
			If your family is under some amount of money, free kindergarten + prek. 
			
			Kindergarten and preschool are important. 
			
			
		Job training for the Poor
		
		
		Literacy programs to help people read. 
		
		Community Action Program
		

The 1964 Election: 

	After Kennedy dies, Johnson gets the free nomination. 
	
	He is only free for one year though, he has to get reelected. 
	
	
	Very famous election. 
	
	
	In most elections, the candidates are very similar. 
	
	In this election, the most stark difference in ideologies. 
	
	
	LBJ is a stark liberal. 
	
		He wins by a landslide. 
		
		destruction. 
		
		61% of the popular vote. 
		
	Opposition: 
	
		Barry Goldwater. 
		
		
			Very conservative leader: 
			
				Beggining of a very powerful conservative campaign. 
				
				
	Goldwater was seen as very agressive towards the communists. 
	
	
	Goldwater painted as too agressive. 
	
		Seems way too scary. 
		
		
	INFLUENCE OF TV ADS: STILL A PREVALENT AND POWERFUL THING! 
	
	
	LBJ is going to pass a ton of liberal legislation :
	
		Almost 200 pieces. 
		
		Greatest since the New Deal. 
		
		
	In this period of the mid 1960s, there is a wave of liberalism. 
	
	
	Effectiveness of a president is their ability to pass legislation, and he owned Congress, practically. 
	
	
	
	LBJ wanted: 
	
		BIG FOUR REFORMS: 
		
			Federal money is given to aid education. 
			
			Medical care for Elderly. 
			
			Immigration reform. 
			
			Voting rights bill. 
			
				Civil and voting rights legislation .
				
				
		Liberal reforms that are sometimes called the "rights" revolution. 
		
		Hispanic and Native American movements. 
		
		
		Lot of bills from Congress. 
		
		
		Lot of liberal legislation. 
		
			Conservative backlash upcoming. 
			
				"rights revolution" 
				
		GREAT SOCIETY: 
		
			Medicare: For Elderly. 
			
			Medicaid: For Poor. 
			
			Elementary and Secondary act: 
				
				Aid to poor school districts. 
			
					most school rankings are in wealthy towns. 
					
					Schools are usually funded by local communities
					
						This means that the wealthier localities and neighbourhoods have worse schools and educational systems. 
						
						Prior to this, there was little to no federal oversight over education. 
						
						Federal money is now allowed to go to poor school districts. 
					
						Money is allowed to fund private schools and religious schoools. 
						
							COntroversial: 
								
								Supreme Court allows it because the money was not going to the churches but to the individuals in the schools. 
			
				Child Nutrition. 
				
					Federal mandates placed on Child Nutrition. 
					
					Schools still had to provide food to students during Covid, think about it. 
				
			Immigration laws: Immigration Act of 1975.
			
				Massive changes in demographics during this period. 
				
					literally us. 
					
				all of the immigration quotas for asia and south america taken out. 
				
			Food Stamp Act: 
			
				Poor families can apply for provisions to purchase food. 
				
			Liberals tend to like federal money to go into the arts. 
			
				PBS and NPR created. 
				
					Led to programs like Sesame Street, the goats. 
					
			Two new Housing departments: 
			
				Department of Transportation. 
				
					Department of Urban development. 
					
					Departmentof Housing and Urban Development. 
					
				
			Increased funding for Higher Education, Public Housing, and Crime prevention. 
			


Not Just Johnson: 

	Congress is also passing liberal ideas. 
	
		Silent Spring: 
		
			Environmental Vrishank stuff book. 
			
				Really raised awareness about environmental issues. 
				
				leads to a lot of environmental laws. 
				
				
		Ralph Nader: 
		
			famous Congressman for over forty years. 
			
				large consumer advocate. 
				
				passed laws on automobiles: 
				
					cars were cool looking but super duper dangerous. 
					
					high fatality crashes. 
					
					Government in the 60s started passing a lot of safety standards. 
					
					They were selling different things prior to this. 
					
					
				Cars in the fifties were also really big gas guzzlers and not particularly environmentally friendly. 
				
				
		President's wife; 
		
			Lady Bird Johnson. 
			
				Beautification
					
					Tried to make public spaces look better. 
					
					Big into things like planting flwers on highways and clearing up urban blight. 
					
					
					You tend to respect and act better in areas in clean areas: big theories. 
					
					
					Fixing up the decaying cities. 
					


Lyndon Johnson Civil Rights: 

	Civil rights legislation would cost the democratic party southern votes. 
	
		Major southern states cote for republicans due to the civil rights legislation. 
		
		Johnson believed that it was the right thing for him and the nation to embrace in Civil Rights legislation. 
		
		Initially, him and Dr King were friends and worked together closely. 
		
	INitially is an emphasis. 
	
	
	Civil rights act of 1964: 
	
		Segregation illegal in all public facilities. 
		
		Strengthen power of federal government to end school segregation. 
		
		Equal employment opportunity commission. 
		
			Sex, race, religion - End Employment Discrimination. 
			
		Any type of public facility MUST be integrated. 
		
			No segregation of any kind allowed. 
			
			Private and segregated golf clubs and stuff allowed. 
			
				ONLY FOR PUBLIC. 
				
				
		States cannot decline this federal law, if they do, fines and punishments. 
		
		If States violate, they may lose federal funding. 
		
		Equal employment opportunity commissiion: 
		
			cannot segregate against anything when it comes to hiring. 
			
		Huge step forward. 
			
			
		Civil rights act also promotes womens rights. 
		
		If you are a company found violating this act, you can get in really big trouble. 
		
		Will lead to more opportunities and a more diverse workplace in the United States. 
		
		Hard to prove that someone is segrating though by race. 
		
		24th amendment: 
		
			abolished poll tax to make sure that african americans can actually vote. 
			
			
		Voting Rights Act of 1965: 
			
			bans literact yests
			 
			provides Federal support to register voters. 
			
		These cosniderably increase african american voter turnouts. 
		
		
		
		
However, these programs all required a lot of money. 

LBJ ended up alienating his own voter base by sending us through the VIETNAM WAR

which also took up a lot of money. 

This is how even his friend Dr King ended up going against him for the VIETNAM WAR. 
			