8:12 AM Monday, March 18, 2024

Birmingham Campaign: 1963. 
	
Dr. King's group decided that they were going to target Birmingham Alabama

Notoriously known as one of the most racist cities of the time period. 

King was imprisoned during this event and wrote the famous "Letter from Birmingham Jail". 


White Clergymen criticized him and his campaign. 

He wrote his response in the margines of the newspaper they criticized him on. 

King was released from jail to find the Birmingham movement in peril. 

City's black youth rose up to take responsibility. 


A lot of Black teens were arrested to the City Jail after their insane protests. 


The racist police chief was happy to use fire hoses and K9 units. 


Although they "lost" in Birmingham, the videos of the torture and abuse are exposed and the gneral American White now builds sympathy. 

Kennedy also gets swayed. 

JFK gives this speech and is now unique for being against segregation for once. 


The March on Washington. 

Supporting of Civil Rights legislation. 

High marks of the Civil Rights movement. 


Sung Songs. 

Many famous African Americans spoke. 


	I HAVE A DREAM! 
	
Night that JFK made his speech. 

	Medgar Evers targeted and killed
	
	leader of NAACP in Missouri. 
	
Baptist church of Birmingham was bombed by White supremacists and four young African American girls were killed. 

Massive and violent resistance. 

4 decades until the bombing people are charged for their crimes. 


FREEDOM SUMMER: 

	Mississipi 1964. 
	
	Descended on Missipi and tried to educate people and educate people about voting. 
	
	A lot of African Americans were not interested in joining a program about voting. 
	
	Expecially because he was white. 
	
	The Freedom schools were a bit more famous than the Voter Registration drives. 
	
	Known because three people just went missing out of nowhere. 
	
	Northern Whites went missing in the South. 
	
	
	The three men had been killed. 
	
	They had been tipped off as to where to look for their bodies. 
	
	
	The police were the ones to do it so it was so hard to figure it out. 
	
	lack of proof. 
	
	Selma Voting Rights Campaign. 
	
	Winter of 1965. 
	
	Similar Idea: 
	
		Register people to vote in Alabama. 
		
		This one is more famous because it is similar to the Birmingham Campaign. 
		
		WIll also lead towards Legislation and a  lot of change. 
		
		
		
		In 1965, protests targeted Alabama. 
		
			Fewer than 1% of African Americans were registered botes. 
			
	
	
		People were practically imprisoned for registering to vote. 
		
		March from Selma to Capital: Montgomery, Alabama. 
		
		SCLC: James Bevel suggests the idea. 
		
		more than 50 mile march. 
		
		On March 7, they led 500 marchers over the Edmund PEttus Bridge. 
		
		Alabama State troopers with Gas Masks and Riot gear go to try and stop them. 
		
		
		They abused everyone, ebat people, and the Cameras immortalized the "Bloody Sunday" 
		
		Shocked the nation. 
		
		Public opinion very quickly swayed. 
		
		Lyndon "big b" johnson agrees. 

		Voting Rights act of 1965 will be passed. 
		
		Offers Government protection of those rights as well so now they actually are rights. 
		
		Considered the end of the classical phase of the Civil Rights movement. 
		
		With nonviolence, in 1965, and the march to Montgomery. 
		
		After this, it becomes more divisive and radical. 
		
		Dr. King is killed and here come the rise of the Black Panthers and Malcolm X and people who believe in radical extremist racial equality. 
		
		
		Dr. King's effectiveness as a leader is questioned. 

		Malcom X was extreme: 
		
			People liekd him for his willingness to take action, but a lot of people disliked him for his spreading of violence. 
		Black power: 
		
			Having your own black identity against the traditional Black Identity was really important. 
			
			
		Protests during Olympics: 
		
			Seen as very controversial in this time. 
			
			Seen as disrespectful. 
			
			Similar to kneeling for the National Anthem. 
			
			Lack of opportunity and lack of Education. 
			
		One of the reasons we still ahve racial probelms in America is because of this large economic inequality in between these races.  
		
		Assassination of Dr. King leads to huge, huge riots and violence. 
		
		Murder of King causes huge issues. 
		
		Fair housing act - 1968. 