APUSH NOTES: 1-24-24


ww1 - Much less clear cut who the "bad guy" is. 

ww2 - Much more clear who the bad guy is. 


There was no real immigration into the Americas after the quota laws so the 
German Americans in America lowkey did not like hitler either.



Immigrants in America had been established for a while and becaue of this, 
there was a lot more loyalty and such towards the united states. 





Roosevelt persuades the Congress in special session to allow the US to 
aid European Democracies in a limited way.

	Cash And Carry Act: 

		Allows for countries to get stuff from America SOLELY through 
		cash purchases and through their own ships. 


Germans and everyone was lowkey not fighting anyone for a minute: 

	This was called the Phoney War. 

Quickly though, they took advantage of: 

	Blitzkreig Warfare: 

		Quickly took over French and Poland. 

They also ended up getting the mighty French to surrender, which is kind of interesting. 


There was fair amount of Antisemitism with the American sas wlel, but the Holocaust was bad enough. 


Selective Service Act (1940). 

	First peacetime conscription. 


"America First" Committee" 

	Believed that no aid should be provided to Britain, becaus ehtis brings us into
	conflict. 

	Led by Charles Lindbergh


DR SEUSS: 

		was actually a political cartoonist during this time,
		and you can see his art style lowkey look the same which is kinda cool. 


Battle of Britain:

	The British RAF was absolutely able to defend the Isles from the German Luftwaffe. 


Destroyers for BAses: 

	America offers 50 US desroyers for 8 military bases. 

		* PRESIDENTIAL AGREEMENT * 

	This was led by Democrats and this helped give the British supplies. 


Roosevelt knows from a very early point that WW2 will be won only by America Entering. 

Britain could survive, could not free France or take the fight to Germany



Election of 1940: 
	
	The main question of American Democracy: 

		Should FDR run for a third term?

			The Constitution has no rules regarding the number of laws. 

			FDR does also want to retire. 

			He was president through many stressful times. 

			Part of him believes that he is a good president for this time
			and that he is necessary for this nation. 

			He never said that he wants to run. 
				
				He said that if the Democrats nominate him, he will run. 

				This is funny because obviously they will win if they do. 


	His opposition: 

		Wendell Willkie: 

			He criticized the effectiveness of the New Deal and was a new guy. 


			Both of these guys say the same thing about the war. 

				That we should not enter, but we should help the British. 

				FDR is not really focused on campaigning, he is more focus
				on winning the war. 


FDR lowkey sweeps the nation. 


He is still very popular in America and his main reason for winning was: 

	People wanted to go with what is alreayd working. 

	Clearly, FDR was the one who got them out of the past crisis,
	now ideally he would help them out here as well. 



Four Freedoms Speech - FDR: 

	This speech was considered to be one of his most famous speeches. 

	January 1941. 

	Some people see it as the greatest articulation of his belief. 


	He claims that all people need four basic freedoms to live: 
		
		and that the government needs to guarantee them. 

			Freedom For Religion

			Freedom For Speech

			Freedom FROM Fear

			Freedom FROM Want (poverty and need)


January 1941: 

Great Britain is still fighitng on theri own. 

They are running out of supplies. 



This leads to the "Lend-Lease act": 

	He proposed that America just help out their neighbours and fellow democratic nations

	He also claims that it is better to send Guns to win the war and not Sons. 

		*WINK WINK IT RHYMES* 


	Lend Lease was also applied to the Soviets and the Chinese later in the war.  

Changing nature of American Neutrality: 

	We are slowly getting more involved despite not really wanting to fight. 

	Controversial and debated across the country. 

	Isolationists and American Firsters obviously do not like it. 


	By March, most Americans are willing to accept that we should be aiding Great Britain. 




Changing American Neutrality for the better: 

	This means that the Americans are slowly becoming more and more into the war. 




We spend around 40 billion dollars in Lend-Lease with the Lion's share going to the British.





Hitler, frustrated by the failure to knock out the British: 

	Hitler is going to stab the Soviets in the back with 

		
		OPERATION BARBAROSSA: 

			A quick invasion of Russia. 

			They really thought that they could take Russia by the end of the year. 


			The winter does stop them from getting the oil fields that they wanted
			though. 


			This gave the Soviets a lot of time to rebuild and setup. 



This failed mission is seen as Hitler's big tactical blunder. 



Most people do not believe that Hitler, although he was good at garnering public support, 
was not a good tacticiand and if he honestly just listened to his General, he might have even
won the war. 



America works with the Soviets for one reason and for one reason only: 

	Although we do not liek communism or Stalin, we also do not like Germany. 

	The enemy of my enemy is my friend .


Germany and Italy are less allies and more so working together. 


Italy ends up switching sides by the end .



THE ATLANTIC CHARTER: 


	Roosevelt and Churchill sign treaty for friendship in August of 1941: 

		Very similar to the Fourteen Points after WW1 but with just 8 points. 


		Roosevelt is outlining post-war peace before even entering the war. 


		it called for a new League of Nations 

		These ideas are much more succesful after WW2 than WW1. 



When the war starts:  

	Germany does not want America to Enter. 


	They did not attack American Ships like they did in WW1.

	But after Lend-Lease, Germany is forced to, as Lend-Lease is effectively an 
	economic declaration of war. 

	Roosevelt is now convoying and protecting ships as far as Iceland. 


	Germany UBOATS are now sinking American Ships. 


	Roosevelt issues a shoot-on-sight order: 

		If we see the Germans, we are allowed to shoot them even if they do not
		provoke. 

	4-6 American ships were sunk during this period. 

	We are effectively fighting a naval war. 
























