World War 2 Notes: 3rd Day? 


RECAP: 

pearl harbor big kaboom skill issue. 

BACK TO NOTES: 


America on the Home Frontt during World War II


- - - - - - - - - 

War brings a lot of social change. War brings a lot of social change to the nation. 

When talking about America on the Home Front, we are talking about American Culture Shift
due to World War II. 

Most visible on the AP TEST: 




THEMES OF TODAY: 

Suppression of Civil Libertie of Minorities: 



Expansion of Federal Government + Massive Economic Control: 




During World War 1, there was a lot of racism and Anti-German Sentiments due to the war. 

There was not any anti german sentiments during WW2 because most germans were relatively loyal to 
the United States. 


However, the same cannot be said about the JapaneseAmericans : 

	They bombed pearl harbor. 

	There was fear that they would bomb the west coast. 

	There was fear that the Japanese Americans would continue to be loyal to the Japanese 
	after an invasion / bombing of the West Coast. 

	also, predujice against Asian Americans has BEEN a thing. 

	They called the second japanese immigration "the second yellow peril". 

	Japanese tended to be economically quite succesful. 



All of this led to executive order 9066

	Japanese Internment camps to detain the Japanese. 

	Most of them are for the West Coast. 

	100,000 Japanese MAericans. 

	over 2/3s of these people were AMerican Citizens who were just born to Japanese parents. 

	The justification for this was that they could potentially be spies. 

	There was no evidence that any Japanese Americans were being secretly loyal to Japan. 

	They created 10 internment camps across the country. 




These camps are not Concentration Camps: they are not trying to kill the Japanese Americans. 

They were mostly just prisons. (not justifying, just saying.) 



This is arguably Unconstitutional so, this dude named Korematsu sued them, but LOST: 


	The United States won by arguing that it was for the war or some bs.


The argument is that Citizens during wartime must make sacrifices just like our soldiers. 

Most of the Japanese American Families involved left their homes, people lost homes, businesses. 



point is, it had a lot of long term exclusionary issues. 



The Japanese Exclusionary act was supported by the American Citizens. 

Over 2/3s of the Americans wanted the internment camps to stay open. 

The anti Japanese sentiment lingers for many decades. 

People did not want to stay with the "enemy".

Many Americans died trying to fight the Japanese. 




WAR PRODUCTION BOARD: 

	Considered to be one of the great achievements of American History: 

		We out produce the enemy. 

		We are just able to make so much more. 

		All of this manufacturing and all of these factories: now producing weapons of war 


		Can you buy a 1943 Ford Car? 

			No, they were producing just vehicles for war. 

		crazy to think that an entire country was just working on making weapons for war. 


		Henry Kaiser: ship builder: very famous: 

			could create an entire battleship every 2 weeks from 0 to hero. 

		This insane production helps to end the Great Depression once and for all. 


		Some workers in key industries get deferments from the draft: 

			They were believed to be more valuable building ships and planes than
			to be in the war. 




OPA: OFFICE OF PRICE ADMINISTRATION: 

	They set up a system where you could only buy some key products with a Ration Card

	The government set up some price control to control inflation. 


	They set up rationing and rent controls to help up the situation. 

	They promoted hoem gardens and "victory gardens". 

	FUEL: 

		Fuel is scarce: Needed for the army. 

			Carpooling and public transportation is really promoted. 



This did result in black market trading of goods without ration cards: but you could not price
gouge. 





Just like World War 1 Propoganda: there is a lot of World War 2 Propoganda. 

50 % of country was against World War 1, but World War 2 was a lot more popular. 



Movie directors made films supporting the war. 


"RADIO WAR" 


	World War 1 was a Newspaper War. 

	This is a radio War. 

	Vietnam was a TV war. 

	Then modern wars are big social media wars. 


People would listen for nightly war reports and what not to see what was happening. 


This was led by the OFfice of War Information. 


Large Worker strikes would cripple the ability of a country to fight. 


So the National War Labour Board was set up to control unions. 

Some unions outright ban striking. 


Incredibly pro-union time period due to promotion and benefits. 



Worker Heroism: YOUR LABOUR will help US win the war. 




Smith connally Anti-Strike act. 

	United MIne workers and John Lewis did end up strikign though. 


	This act was passed over Roosevelt's veto. 


	This gave the government the ability to control striking industries during the war. 

	If a war-important operation was on strike, the government could sieze the operation. 


	They siezed the railroads and the coal indsutries for some time.



15,000,000 american men serve in WW2. 

10 mil drafted. 5 mil volunteered. 



Women were allowed to serve in the Armed FOrces, now just not in combat. 


They joined these auxiliary corps. 

medics, navy, etc. 


Around 100,000 women did join the army as parts of these aux corps. 





Just like WWI, the war will be extremely important for womens right. 


6 million women joined the workforce: 1/3 of the entire work force. 


2/3 of the women leave after the war ended. 


Many Married Women Worked: 

	Many Daycare centers were built by the country: around a 1000. 

	This is because now women were working, so the kids needed a place to stay at. 


	The government did freeze wages during the war. 
		
		This means that there is an upper cap to the wages. 


	Workers did not love this but they did not complain too mcuh. 


	Many male workers worked two jobs and worked overtime so there was good money. 

	not a lot of things to buy. 

	One of the first times in American History now start saving money. 


Did women like working during WW2: 

	YES !

	This is the start, the slow start, of the women's right movement during the fifties
	and seventies. 


	This is sort of the start of the "suburban housewife" time period, b




POPULATION SHIFTS: 


	A lot of west movement in this time: big population shifts.

	San diego, San Francisco, think about all of the military bases there. 

	A big shift is to the south. 

	The large factories and jobs in the south is to stimulate the economy. 

	Intentional by the government. 

	The South still holds most of our large military bases. 


	It was for the growth of those areas, this military stationing. 



People are still moving towards the south and the west in the modern day. 


Shows up on AP Test a lot: understanding migration and movement of people. 




African Americans experience gains during the war: 

	Still discrimination, but there is a lot of opportunities still. 

	A. Philip Randolph (Kylian Mbappe) believes that Americans are not fairly treated in 
	war industries. 

	Mbappe is the leader of the African American Railroad Unions: 

		FDR did not want a large protest for the African Americans during WW2 
		in washington. 

		He made a deal with Mbappe: 

			End this protest and I will help you out. 


FEPC: 

Fair Employment Practices Commission: 

	Makes it illegal for war industries to not hire people based on their race during WW2. 


	A Philip Randolph was the first guy in the march at Washington DC with MLK. 

		Symbolic. 



Segregated Units. 


	They were cooks, moving supplies, aux corps. 

	The Tuskegee Airmen were black bombers who protect boming runs during WW2. 


	Eleanor Roosevelt flew with the tuskegee airmen: 

		Showing support; 
			First Lady flying alone with black people. 

	


many historians believe that hte start of the civil rights movement of the fifties and sixties
started during WW2. 


It is not lost on the world Community that we discriminate on milliosn of people based on their
race. 

MAny african americans made civil rights a priority. 

They claled it the double V victory: 

	Fighting fascism abroad and racism at home. 

NWACP saw a large increase in members, largest of all time for them. 

How can america can call themselves the champions of liberty when they are so racist to people 
living in their own country (the african americans) 

new group formed during WW2 that is important in the future: the corps. 




A lot of the leaders of th ecivil rights movement of the fifties are veterans of the war. 



Braceros: 


	We need labour during the war: 

		A lot of mexican americans struggld to find work during the big sad: 

			We set up the Bracero Program: 

				Gives Mexican Americans visas to work agricultural jobs in the 
				southwest .

				Promoting Americans all for mexicans to work. 

































