1-30-24 notes 

ZOOT SUIT RIOTS: 

	Zoot suits are these expensive to make clothes that were worn very commonly by Mexican Americans. 

	The Mexican Americans wore these Zoot Sutis even though they were illegal because of how much fabric they took 
	to make. 

	People disliked these people wearing these clothes and hated the racism and got into a huge riot about them. 

	huge controversial issue. 



NAVAJO CODE TALKERS: 

	During WW2: Native Americans did serve. 

	A colonel in the marines grew up near a Navajo base. 

	He had an idea about the languages: 

		He believed that the Navajo language as code 

		he believed that less than 50 non-native people actually understood the Navajo language. 

		One of the few codes in world military history that were never figured out - The Japanese coudln't 
		decode it. 

	Navajo language is very complex to try and understand. 
	Common Navajo Words represented letters. 

	Very unique success of the Native Aemrican people during this time period. 


	The Marines used this code in the Pacific theater and then later in the Korean war and released the info in
	1990-ish. 



For fifty years, the policy of the US Government was to destroy Native American culture and languages. 


With a small change in policy, you can find that there is a huge benefit that comes with a country having strong 
national diversity. 


War is insanely expensive: 

	They try to fund it through these war bonds. 

	They sold 135 BILLION dollars. 

	

We ENTER THE WAR: 

	Washington Conference: 

		Meeting where CHurchilla nd Roosevelt meet to plan the war. 


	Starting of the war: 

		Focus is Germany. 

		If America fights Japan, then Britain loses and then fight alone. 

		US focuses on defeating GErmany then with the Soviets and the British focus on Japan. 


	PACIFIC THEATER OF OPERATIONS: 

		Strategy is to just keep fighting to not lose. 

		War of attrition type shit. 


	Germany does surrender first. 


	War in Europe is over. 


	Without the Atomic Bombs, Japanese war would have least 7-8 months more.

	Japanese has solid wins quickly to try and outspeed America. 

	They control Southeast Asia all the way to the Solomon Islands. 

	
	America Surrenders of Phillippines: 

		Famous General Douglas McArthur. 

		He famously escaped the phillippines and said "I shall Returnnnnnn". 

	Japan was very cruel to Prisons of War. 


	they made the American soldiers march over a 100 miles and thousands dropped dead. 


	Jungle was just littered with corpses. 

	
	TIM LEE: 

		Why did Japan do this? 

			Japan did not believe Surrender. 

			Rather racist and believed in the superiority of Japanese culture over Chinese 
			and Korean Culture. 

			Lot of Cultural nationalism in Japan. 

			There is still tension between these groups related to WW2. 

	Japanese thrusts into the Asian continent. 


	They overextended themselves and made themselves vulnerable to a counter attack. 


	FIRST MAJOR WAR VICTORY: 

		Battle of the COral Sea. 


		The main turning point in the war against Japan was Midway Island. 

		If japan took Midway, it would have taken Hawaii and it would have been wraps. 



		Most of the naval fighting is done off of aircraft carriers: 

			The ships never fire or see each other. 

				That is why the aircraft carriers are so importnat. 



		Watch Casablanca: talks about north african occupation.  


	Battle of the Atlantic: 

		Controlling Shipping orutes is important in order to get stuff ot the place that it needs to be at. 


		By about 1943: 

			The tide of the war will change as AMerica starts to control the shipping lanes better. 

			Using Depth Charges, using sonar and radar. 

		Before that: 

			Getting sunk by German UBOATS. 



		We had submarines, but the main users were the Germans. 


	
	Casablanca Conference: 

		Series of war conferences between the leaders happen, and then the first one is this one. 
		America and Britain Meet. 


		Stalin wants America to attack France and open up a new front: A  second fron tin France. 




	Roosevelt was willing to open up this front. 

	Churchill felt that people invaded France without ample preparation, it owuld just result in no gains and 
	heavy heavy losses. 

		He learned from World War 1. 


	Stalin will believe that the Americans and the British wanted the Soviets to bleed out and to purposefully bleed
	out the Soviets. 

	America and Britain wanted the unconditional Surrender where the other ocuntries listen to any terms that are
	presented ot them. 


TEHRAN CONFERENCE: 

	YES D**** STALIN: 

		In the spring of 1944 we invade France. 

		The Soviets now start advancing instead of just holding on. 



OPERATION OVERLORD: D DAY ! : 


	The whole planning called operation overlord. 


	the americans are joined by the british and the canadians. 


	the overlal command was given to Dwight D eisenhower. 


	generals was very well liked by most people. 


	Most of the famous fighting is at omaha beach. 

	there were a lot of other landings. 

	teh germans thought they were going to land NOT in normandy: as it ahs a longer area to cross the channel and 
	high sea walls and heavily guarded areas, but they were not as guarded as the other places, as the germasn 
	thought they were going ot land in caleigh and moved most of their forces there. 


	the first waves of D Day get decimated but by the end of the day they secure the beach heads. 


	In two months, in august, paris is liberated. 



	southern France was ruled by france who collabed with the Nazis. 


	people hated nazi collaborators. 


	women who did this, were often harrased and bullied. 


	in 1944, the Democrats nominate Roosevelt again, republicans nominate thomas dewey and he was popular. 

	liberal republican. 

	he lowkey didnt win tho. 











































