MISCELLANEOUS NOTES FROM OTHER DAYS THAT I COULD NOT FIT IN:


MISCELLANEOUS


So, after the war is over, some things are signed. 


The most importnat of which being the Geneva Convention, which we all know and lov today. 


Cold war is now practically initiated. 


The Dropping of the Atom Bombs now set the stage for the future as wars could never be fought at this scale. 

In order to fight like this, humanity would have to end itself. 



America emerged as the most powerful nation now. There was no true competition to them. 


Europe was ravaged by war. japan was burnt to glass. The only thing left was the United States. 



Now, the Cold war and the nuclear warfare would set up the world that we live in today. Crazy stuff, right? !






CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT: 



Dejure vs DEFACTO segregation

Segregated by law: Dejure. 


Defacto Segregation is when segregation happens by culture and society, not by law. 

Long term causes behind Civil Rights Movement: 


WW2: 
	more African Americans working in War industris. 

	Double V campaign: Facism abroad, racism at home. 

	"great migration" 

		led to changing demographics in the 1950s. 

		WW2 and into the 1950s, people are migrating. 

		life was better for blacks in the North, just not by a lot. 


		ended up by changing a lot of white Northern attitudes about teh colored peoples. 


		white people ended up supporting the diversity, at least in the north, HUGE SUCCESS
		of civil rights movement(s). 


		best way to stop prejudice is to show people the "other side" 



		starting from the new deal, the African Americans are moving to the Democratic Party. 


		The Democrats are championing most of this civil rights legislation. 

		women. ew. 


		leaders of civil rights movement are mostly educated .




		Urban african american middle class are rising. 


		"african americans of means" 


		Dr. King, ex. from a wealthier african americna family (EDUCATED) 

		way behind whites, but way ahead of the past. 



		foreign commmunity criticizing america. 

		it is hypocritical to call yourself the land of liberty when you deny liberty to people based off
		of race and skin color. 

		Truman promoted civil rights, but he was criticized for this. 

		It does however, show a president making a stance for more equality. 


		Jackie Robinson: 1947: first african american to play in a white majority white sport that was super
		popular. 

		now there are white kids cheering for an african american on screen. 


		Emmet till - 1955


		he was a young boy from chicago

			went to spend a summer in mississipi

			big difference in race raltions betwene mississipi and chicago

			emmet was bragging that he had a white girlfriend in chicago 

			a white girl and emmet allegedly whistled at ehr or probably did nothing

			the girl lied 

			she told her family that he made allegedly osme advance on her 

			they killed emmet tills uncle in an incredibbly cruel way 


			it was a huge story 

			this event inspired many activists to take much more of a stance


			first off, he was a northener. 


			the uncle wanted an open casket so that the world could see


			phoyo was on the cover of jet magazine a very popular afro american magazine of the time 

			the uncle identified that these were the people who dragged the nephew from the house


			an all white jury would never commit a white man for a crime against a black man.


			NAACP legal defense team 

			went against segregation laws so they ended up winning a few cases here and there

			liek brown v board of education. 


			educational segregation prior to brown v board was super super super duper common.


			winney and mr mein visited the school wherein brown v board of education happened. 


			unanimous decision that segregation is inherently unequal for brown v board.


			segregation leads to an inferiority complex on the group being segregated


			it is inherently unequal 

			no such thing as seperate but equal. 

			earl warren was the chief justice. 


			republican moderate


			governor of cali 


			california
			we want to partae
			california
			just wants to partae
			in the citae
			the citae of oefwjiowej
			we keep ita rockin 
			we keep ita rocking
			let me see it shake shake shake

			violence and unrest super common 

			any period of change has violence and unrest. 



			a lot of the states jsut did not listen to the supreme court ruling. 

			they ended up waiting till the federla government actually did something

			where the punishments or finesor what not. 

			the soutehrn manifesto were peoples that did not want tio integrate with the africna americans

			the african americans



			the schools sometimes would just close rather than integrate. 





			the ruling leads to a compaign of massive resistance. 


			the montgomery bus boycott is a rather famouus event


			rosa parks moment. 


Rosa parks

	the story I have typicalyl heard of rosa parks probably is false. 

	rosa parks was a very active member of her local civil rights community
	
	she is college educated

	local secretary at one point of montgomery of NAACP

	one of the few african americans in alabama who could vote

	the day she decided to not move, she was thinking of emmet till

	just to show the effect


	leaders at montgomery had a plan to do a one day bus boycott


	a couple of people were arrested before but had iffy credentials


	the enxt day, they had this all day bus boycott. 


	the would wlak and they would carpool. 


	the bus boycotts lasted around 11 months. 

	some afro americans would walk seven miles to work in support of this. 



	this is where dr martin luther king emerged as  face and leader of the civil rights movement

	his father was a reverend from atlanta

	he was educated at boston u

	he had just ogtten the pastorship at this montgomery baptist church

	nobody had any ties the the community to have beef, so he ended up getting the seat. 



	the night that eh spoke aftter the first day, it took 15 minutes to quiet down the club. 


	the crowd was huge. 


	he was really the face of the movement. 

	this was ultimately successful, because dr king was arrested. 


	the white leaders of montgomery tired to fight it, but the sup court ruled that the buses must integrate. 


	first amssive protest for equality that was inevitably succesful. 


	little rock centrla high school was going to integrate

	chose 9 afro american students to go t this all white school 

	there was a big reaction from the white omcmmunity. 



	the courts ruled that the cnetrla high school must intgerate


	he is a civil rights moderate


	the governor of arkansas was a moderate but went against it, in order to protect his political career. 


	units of the national guard wer emobilized to protect a school from NINE BLACK KIDS


	this dude sends in the national guard to violate brown v board of education: A FEDERAL LAW


	eisenhower is not a huge supporter of civil rights, so he yells at him becuas ehe supports federal law. 


	

	the little rock nine entered city rock high 



	and people were upfront and then they could hear a MOB



	

	there were only three people who represented the black press. 

	there was  ahuge crowd outside to hate on nine kids. 


	there were other people trying to skip into the side of the building. 



	the crowd turned on hicks and his companions. 


	someone had a brick at their hand, he hit someone with a brick for no apparent reason. 


	that guy went down like "a tree" 



	the mob was there against them. 



	the people said can you at LEAST hang one person. 


	president eisenhower realized he had to aact, and he sent in para troopers. 



	eisenhower realized tha tthis was too extreme of a  situation. 


	resistance of a federal court is terrible in his eyes. 


	he sends in the milatary to shut down this type of a riot. 


	mob rule cannot be allowed to overriede the ddecisions of our federal courts. 


	there was massive resistance to white southerners from all over the south. 

	wasn't just little rock. 


	they send in the literal military. 


	the ARMY is escorting these students into th high school. 

	the soldiers had to stay year. 



	the sit in movement .



	amny department stores would have cafes in them .


	They alwys had these lunch counters that were basically diners. 


	very common. 


	some kdis sat at lunch counters and refused to leave until they were served in the all white section. 

	oftentimes, this led to violence. 


	this was a tactic. 


	there would just be an unending line of kids who just ckept sitting down after some kids were arrested. 



	there are a couple civil rights groups that lead the movement to the same GOAL with diff STRATEGIES


	student noviolence citizen commitee were student run, did the sit in groups, most radical


	most famous group is southern chrisitan leadership conference. 


	harnessed the powers of african american churches. 


	dr. king's group. 


	NAACP is still the largest of all of them. they focused on legal strategy. 


	Congress of Racial Equality was also another group that existed during this time. 


	the NAACP was always behind the scenes trying to promote rulings for all froup movement.



	king's influnces included: 


		gandhi and INdia 

		civil disobedience: henry david thoerau

			if a law is immora, you should actively break it

		the bible and christianity 

			a lot of these leaders referenced the bible and christianity. 
	
	these people knew that if a black man raised a hand against a white man it would SHOOT DOWN their movement



	Strategies: 

		Non violent protest

		passive resistance

		economic challenges and boycotts

		legal challenges thorugh the courts

		media attention

		legislation

	violence brings about change, expecially when sym-empatheticic people see it .



	Eisenhower was hesistnat to address the issue of racial equality. 

	the civil rights act of 1957 is passed and is the first civ rights legislation since reconstruction

	did not really do much to promote equality but it was a start. 

	it did not really lead towards a ton of hcange at this time. 


	operation wetback 

		he rounded up tons of illegal immigrants

		was an insensitive term

		there was legal immigration through the mexican border, but they were rounding up over a million
		illegal immigrants

		large scale deportations. 









